adds documentation around throttle step (#411)
trycourier/docs: versioned_docs/version-2.0.0/automations/throttle.mdx

## Creating A Throttle Step

To create a Throttle, use the "Throttle" action, then fill out details in the step node.

Specify maximum number of events to allow through the throttle, and the time period to throttle by.

You have the options to throttle by:

| Scope       | Usage                                                |
|:------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| `user_id`   | Apply throttling by using `user_id` coming from `data`|
| `GLOBAL`    | Let Courier decide the throttle parameter.            |

**Note:** This is a beta feature, and we are working on adding more options for throttling.

Below is an example of a throttle step that will allow 2 event to pass through for a given user in a 24 hour period before throttling.

In this example, the throttle is set to be applied by `user_id`. You have to supply `user_id` in the following manner to throttle the user.

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://api.courier.com/automations/<automation_template_id>/invoke \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <replace_with_api_key>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "data": {
		"user_id": "<user_id>"
  }
}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

```

> ```bash
> curl --request POST \
>   --url https://api.courier.com/automations/<automation_template_id>/invoke \
>   --header 'Authorization: Bearer <replace_with_api_key>' \
>   --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
>   --data '{
>   "data": {
> 		"user_id": "<user_id>"
>   }
> }
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://api.courier.com/automations/<automation_template_id>/invoke \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <replace_with_api_key>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
  "data": {
		"user_id": "<user_id>"
  }
}
```

```

---
sidebar_position: 9
sidebar_label: Throttle
slug: ./throttle
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Image from "@theme/IdealImage";
import videoThumbnail from "./assets/video-thumbnail.png";

# Throttle

:::note

Status: This product is under active development and is available in a Private Beta, please
contact Courier support for access.

:::

> The Throttle step in automation limits the number of events that can pass into the next node within a specific period, dropping any additional events. This prevents customers from receiving too many messages about the same event.

Author: ```suggestion
The Throttle step in an automation limits the number of events that can pass into the next node within a specific period, dropping any additional events. This prevents customers from receiving too many messages about the same event.
```

## Example Use Cases

**Alert Notifications**

When sending alert notifications, you may want to limit the number of notifications sent to a user in a given period to avoid bombarding them with too many alerts.

**Email Campaigns**

If you are running an email campaign, you may want to limit the number of emails sent to a customer within a specific timeframe to avoid overwhelming them with too many messages.

> In general, a Throttle step can be useful in any situation where you need to control the flow of data or limit the frequency of an action to prevent overload or overwhelm.

Author: ```suggestion
In general, a Throttle step can be useful in any situation where you need to control the flow of data or limit the frequency of an action.
```

Courier will allow you to specify what next steps should be taken when the throttle is triggered, and what steps should be taken when the throttle is not triggered.

## Creating A Throttle Step

To create a Throttle, use the "Throttle" action, then fill out details in the step node.

Specify maximum number of events to allow through the throttle, and the time period to throttle by.

You have the options to throttle by:

> - user_id
> - automation template id

Author: ```suggestion
| Scope       | Usage                                                |
|:------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| `user_id`   | Apply throttling by using `user_id` coming from `data`|
| `GLOBAL`    | Let Courier decide the throttle parameter.            |

```

**Note:** This is a beta feature, and we are working on adding more options for throttling.

Below is an example of a throttle step that will allow 2 event to pass through for a given user in a 24 hour period before throttling.

> In this example, the throttle is set to throttle by user_id. You would supply `user_id` in following steps to throttle by user.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, the throttle is set to be applied by `user_id`. You have to supply `user_id` in the following manner to throttle the user.
```

> ```ts
> import axios from "axios";
> 
> const options = {
>   method: "POST",
>   url: "https://api.courier.com/automations/<automation_template_id>/invoke",
>   headers: {
>     "Content-Type": "application/json",
>     Authorization: "Bearer <replace_with_api_key>",
>   },
>   data: { data: { user_id: "foobar" } },
> };
> 
> axios
>   .request(options)
>   .then(function (response) {
>     console.log(response.data);
>   })
>   .catch(function (error) {
>     console.error(error);
>   });
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```bash
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <replace_with_api_key>" \
  -d '{
    "data": {
      "user_id": "foobar"
    }
  }' \
  "https://api.courier.com/automations/<automation_template_id>/invoke"

```
